README.md, before:

# LRPhotos

---
LRPhotos is a Lightroom Classic publishing service for Apple's Photos app.
## Features

---
* Publishing photos to Photos.app
* Tagging photos in Photos.app
* Store Photos.app IDs in Lightroom

## Requirements

---
* MacOS 10.10 (Yosemite) or later.
* Windows is not supported.

## Installation

---
1. Download the zip archive from [GitHub](https://github.com/sto3014/LRPhotos/archive/refs/tags/1.0.0.2.zip).
2. Extract the archive in the download folder
3. Copy plug-in into the configuration folder of Lightroom  
   Open a terminal window, change to Downloads/LRPhotos-1.0.0.2 and execute install.sh:
   ```
   -> ~ cd Downloads/LRPhotos-1.0.0.2
   -> ./install.sh 
    ```
   Install.sh copies the plug-in into:
    ```
    ~/Library/Application Support/Adobe/Lightroom/Modules/LRPhotos.lrplugin
    ```
4. Restart Lightroom

## Usage

---
### Publishing
The publish process…
* imports photos into Photos.app
* sets tag __LR:&lt;name of LR catalog file&gt;__
* writes Photos.app IDs to Lightroom  metadata field __Photos ID__

When creating a new publishing service, there are three predefined options which are not default by Adobe:
* Quality for JPEGs is 85% not 60%
* Person info will NOT be removed from metadata
* Location info will NOT be removed from metadata

Of course, you may change these settings for your service definition.

### Re-Publishing
The re-publishing process…
* puts re-published photos into the same albums as their predecessors.
* puts tag __LR:out-of-date__ onto the predecessors

### Remove photos from publishing service
The Photos ID is set back, if you remove a photo from the service

### Configuration
The __Use Album__ configuration in the publishing service setup defines the name of the album where photos are imported in.
The first option allows you to use a single album for all collections in a service. The second option uses the name
of the collection as the album name. The album name includes the name of the Photos.app album as well as the folders.
Examples:
* /Holidays in Spain  
  The album __Holidays in Spain__ will be created directly under __My Albums__
* /2021/Holidays in Spain  
The album  __Holidays in Spain__ will be created in the folder __2021__  
  
Remarks: As the slash is used as directory separator you can not use it for a name of an album.

The __Ignore Albums by Regex__ is used to define albums which are ignored during republishing. During re-publishing, 
the updated photos go into all albums where their predecessors are in. For technical reason,
smart albums must be explicitly excluded. This can be done by a naming convention.  
For instance, the default regex expression
__^!|!$__ excludes all albums which have an exclamation mark at the beginning or at the end of their names.

## Use Cases

---
The applescript interface for Photos.app is restricted:
* It does not support deleting of photos
* It does not allow put photos into shared albums.

### Update albums
You must delete "old" photos manually after a re-publish.
Therefore, a smart album helps which filters by LR:out-of-date tag and may be by LR:<catalog name> as well.

### Update smart albums
If you are using shared albums, you must manually add the updated photos into these albums. Therefore, a second 
smart album is helpful which filters by the date, when photos were added to Photos.app.


## Acknowledgements

--
Special thanks to [Simon Schoeters](https://www.suffix.be/blog/lightroom-iphoto-export/). His export provider plug-in was
the base for LRPhotos.

Commit message:

Fixed unicode issue with album names Fixed update of albums which are in folders.

README.md, after:

# LRPhotos

---
LRPhotos is a Lightroom Classic publishing service for Apple's Photos app.
## Features

---
* Publishing photos to Photos.app
* Tagging photos in Photos.app
* Store Photos.app IDs in Lightroom

## Requirements

---
* MacOS 10.10 (Yosemite) or later.
* Windows is not supported.

## Installation

---
1. Download the zip archive from [GitHub](https://github.com/sto3014/LRPhotos/archive/refs/tags/1.0.0.2.zip).
2. Extract the archive in the download folder
3. Copy plug-in into the configuration folder of Lightroom  
   Open a terminal window, change to Downloads/LRPhotos-1.0.0.2 and execute install.sh:
   ```
   -> ~ cd Downloads/LRPhotos-1.0.0.2
   -> ./install.sh 
    ```
   Install.sh copies the plug-in into:
    ```
    ~/Library/Application Support/Adobe/Lightroom/Modules/LRPhotos.lrplugin
    ```
4. Restart Lightroom

## Usage

---
### Publishing
The publish process…
* imports photos into Photos.app
* sets tag __LR:&lt;name of LR catalog file&gt;__
* writes Photos.app IDs to Lightroom  metadata field __Photos ID__

When creating a new publishing service, there are three predefined options which are not default by Adobe:
* Quality for JPEGs is 85% not 60%
* Person info will NOT be removed from metadata
* Location info will NOT be removed from metadata

Remarks: If you don't export videos as original the create date of the video will be set to the current date.

Of course, you may change these settings for your service definition.

### Re-Publishing
The re-publishing process…
* puts re-published photos into the same albums as their predecessors.
* puts tag __LR:out-of-date__ onto the predecessors

### Remove photos from publishing service
The Photos ID is set back, if you remove a photo from the service

### Configuration
The __Use Album__ configuration in the publishing service setup defines the name of the album where photos are imported in.
The first option allows you to use a single album for all collections in a service. The second option uses the name
of the collection as the album name. The album name includes the name of the Photos.app album as well as the folders.
Examples:
* /Holidays in Spain  
  The album __Holidays in Spain__ will be created directly under __My Albums__
* /2021/Holidays in Spain  
The album  __Holidays in Spain__ will be created in the folder __2021__  
  
Remarks: As the slash is used as directory separator you can not use it for a name of an album.

The __Ignore Albums by Regex__ is used to define albums which are ignored during republishing. During re-publishing, 
the updated photos go into all albums where their predecessors are in. For technical reason,
smart albums must be explicitly excluded. This can be done by a naming convention.  
For instance, the default regex expression
__^!|!$__ excludes all albums which have an exclamation mark at the beginning or at the end of their names.

The __Root Folder for Albums__ is used to define a global folder for all albums in this service. 

## Use Cases

---
The applescript interface for Photos.app is restricted:
* It does not support deleting of photos
* It does not allow put photos into shared albums.

### Update albums
You must delete "old" photos manually after a re-publish.
Therefore, a smart album helps which filters by LR:out-of-date tag and may be by LR:<catalog name> as well.

### Update smart albums
If you are using shared albums, you must manually add the updated photos into these albums. Therefore, a second 
smart album is helpful which filters by the date, when photos were added to Photos.app.


## Acknowledgements

--
Special thanks to [Simon Schoeters](https://www.suffix.be/blog/lightroom-iphoto-export/). His export provider plug-in was
the base for LRPhotos.
